Chapter 1

Menesthur, the Sun Mountain, gleamed bright in the sky, thought Vibfar. He had been sleepless, awake through
some horrible foreboding. Whether it should be an attack by A'Crizghizgunteryuana-knows-who on their town, or a sudden plague
or pestilence, Vibfar could not tell.

He decided that instead of aimlessly looking at the sun he'd do a little work. Vibfar was the son of Kuwirnolda Drunir,
a noble knight of the king's personal favorites. Thank A'Crizghizgunteryuana for that. Vibfar hoped to become a knight himself one day.

He stirred his now-cold cup of tea. He would have to reheat it. Not that he needed it, he was already quite awake.
He had read somewhere that humans needed rituals to function properly. Drinking tea was one of his rituals, as
constant as the ground he stood on and his family.

He was the envy of his friends in the village, due to being favoured enough to have meals straight from the royal
palace, while they had to make do with the local supermarket.

The palace. It would probably be time for a breakfast right now, since a long time, probably an hour, had passed
since Vibfar sat mulling and Menergunter raised his golden rays with Yisyuana, his divine consort.

He put his tea cup down (someone would find it sooner or later) and stretched his aching feet.
Walking out of the house, pausing only to snatch a piece of fruitcake on the kitchen platform, he made his way
to his father's accustomed haunt in the town guard hall.

Walking among the empty village stands, he felt the sense of foreboding grow stronger.
Pushing aside these thoughts he quickly made his way to the watch tower. His town was
a mountain-locked area, and you could only enter from the west through a high, steeped mountain pass,
closely guarded by the watch tower. The town was also on a plateau, so they enjoyed the frosty weather
year-round. The weather would make it difficult for enemies to lay siege to the watch tower, but they
had done it before, according to some old greybeards who still captivated the village with worn-out stories
at the fireside.

He rang the bell, and said his name out loud, as the doors opened before him. He met
the doorman with the traditional _arthugun_, placing his hand on his forehead, to show that the
other was in his head and not forgotten. The doorman did likewise.

He walked through the maze of hallways, leading to balconies that offered different vantage points,
depending on where the enemy was and where they were coming from. This was an important town as many
of the court lived here, close to the capital, Vithri, and yet afar from the daily hustle and bustle.

He met his father reclining in a chair, facing opposite the pass, looking at the village.
They chatted for a while, and then they heard a trumpet. Probably a usual alarm drill.

The scream, however, did not usually follow.

They ran towards the source of the noise, in the levels below, where they met in the fast-kindling
darkness - a Troll. In one stunningly quick move, he moved his great arm towards the newcomers, and
in one fell swoop threw Vibfara's father into the mountain face, a good ten strides away. The Troll,
however, could not do much more damage, and retreated against the new onslaught of the watch-tower's
archers. Vibfara ran towards his collapsed father. He was mumbling in a faraway voice, and his eyes
were rolled into the back of his head.

"Vibfaragunter."

"Your time has come. You will rid the world of a great darkness. You shall bring meaning and glory
to your name. You shall be like no other, yet you shall be overtaken by something completely
unlooked-for. Arth a'gunter drufaraquian nirxinold."

And he died.

***

"Kuwirunolda Drunir, lover of the Sea, guardian of the King's court, the renowned, is with us no more."

The pale man finished his epitaph and walked down the podium.

***

A year had gone by, uneventfully. The Troll had disappeared after killing his father, and something in
Vibfar's heart told him to stay and not pursue the dark creature. After a while, though, the king Menequian summoned
him and he was made a knight in his father's stead. This excited his friends greatly, but he accepted the
appointment with doubt - would he end up like his father?

The king had summoned him to the court, and had promptly started a discussion on the Troll and how it would
impact the relative peace that had lasted since their forefathers.

"We cannot be bothered to be flared up like this by a single, simple Troll!" protested a noble that Vibfar 
recognized as Ardruquian, a fast-rising and powerful patrician in the king's court.

"Your Imperial Majesty, with respect to the Patrician here, I state with full conviction that this problem
is far greater than it appears." said Vibfar, entering the discussion smoothly."I would consider-"

"-nothing! This is beyond foolishness! A idiot of a Troll is stupid enough to scamper over into our borders,
and yet we dedicate a year of effort and debate for action that might threaten peace! Peace that has lasted,
King Menequian, since your father's, grandfather's and forefather's days!"

The king clapped his staff, the Baton of the Yistriquian, signifying his lordship of all that walks under
celestial Menergunter and Yistriyuana. The court was silent.

With great effort (for so it was, King Menequian was old beyond compare) he drew himself up. He clapped his
staff once more.

"I would, against the counsels of my advisers, sturdy though their repute may be"-here Ardruquian bristled,
but passed no comment -"I would rather seek the cause of this Troll, simple though others may deem of its
cause."

"What, Vibfaragunter, son of Kuwirnolda Drunir, knight of Vithri, would thou sayest in this matter?"

Vibfar drew himself up from his seat, bowed in front of the king, and said: "I would that we form a Quest,
to rival the ancient ones of lore; a Quest to destroy the source of evil that hath been bane of my father."

The king, with a gesture, stayed the mouth of Ardruquian. "Your advice seems keener to me, and one who
has seen the passage of ages might long for a bit of action, as your country-folk might say."

"Nay, I shall not join the Quest. Yet I shall watch thy progress from afar, with the aid of my enchanted crows, the
Xighiz. Five shall journey with you; five strong and gloried, and they will be missed. They will aid thee with the
strength of a hundred more; be thankful thouest in favour of thy king."

"Ardruquian? What shall thee add, Patrician of Vithri?"

"Your Imperial Majesty, I vote, as you well know, that we stay this child's adventure; for the Troll in question
knows better than to harm us once more. And there be no more score to settle, we stop ruminating on this mere
chance occurrence, and get back to affairs of state. But, as your Majesty seems set on this Quest, I, Patrician of
Vithri, shall speak no more of this matter."

"Good!" The king clapped his staff on the ground. As though this was a secret sign, every lord and noble
stood up and unsheathed his sword.

"To the King!" they cried.

"All of you are dismissed, except you, Vibfar. We shall talk in time."

The lords and nobles bowed once more, and silently walked out. Ardruquian paused, but went out without comment.

The king signaled to his attendants, who swooped in and helped him out of the golden throne. His staff moved
with a clattering sound that reminded Vibfar of metal. It was carved in intricate designs and glyphs, with
stylized tattoo-like images imprinted on various parts of its body. It, Vibfar knew, was the key to the kingdom's
long and prosperous peace, a gift given to Runolda, the first of the Yistriquian, by Menergunter himself, who
fashioned it out of the bones of the land which Runolda and his descendants lived. When it broke, it would be
heralded as the fall and doom of the kingdom of Vithri.

"Ah, Vibfar, it was nice to hear your voice once more. I gather that the affairs of your town are well?" he
asked, for Vibfar was leader and representative to his town now.

"Sire, it is as perfect as one could wish for. Save, a few of my friends say, a small inconsequential problem."

"What problem may be so inconsequential for thee to mention it so? It shall be deemed normal in the scheme of things.
Tell me!"

"Our people would love to find a way to have hot water in the mornings, for the cold water freezes our bones and makes
us think of death and dark things. For our people awake before Menergunter and Yistriyuan herald the dawn, and the water
grows chill in the dark of Kalaquian, the lord of the night."

The old king chuckled, and said: "Well, this may not be as important as I deemed, in the scheme of things; yet I shall
spare some Yisnoldaxi from my service and try to rectify this matter. In the fullness of time, Vibfar, it may be that
the grandchildren's grandchildren of your friends may thank you wordlessly in their heart as they awake to a new dawn
and hot water"-here the king chuckled once more-"So, on to the Quest. Where do you think the Troll came from?"

****
After much delay (and grumbling, in the case of Ardruquian) the Members of the Quest were gathered and they set off westwards,
were Kalaquian held his strength, where they were sure lay the Chief of the Trolls. Vibfar's mother died a few months prior of
grief, unfortunately, so there wasn't anyone for Vibfar to say goodbye to. His friends were far too engrossed in their daily
lives, and Vibfar wouldn't trouble them on account of him probably never seeing them again.

The other Quest Members, though, had at least a month to trek to their native places on the outskirts of the kingdom, set their
affairs in order, fulfill promises, write wills, and trek back to the capital once more. It was ordained that the Quest should set
out together, which Vibfar found reasonable, though he was extremely restless and was ready to go at a moment's notice. In the meantime
the delights of Vithri kept him entertained and occupied. The hot water in the mornings, to cite one of many.

One by one, they trickled back to the capital. Vibfar got to know them better as Vorik, Frang, Guro, Miluvax, Poloken, and Nierlon.
Each of them had a set of particular traits and idiosyncrasies, which sometimes resulted in much laughter for all. They were
storied, much more old than Vibfar, who only recently became a knight. Yet the age gap seemed not to exist, and they included him
in all their inside jokes, for they were well acquainted with one another.

Vorik was from a northern land, closer to Vibfar's home town than any other of the Quest. They shared the same mannerisms and
expressions. The others often tilted their heads in (non)understanding as they shared a hearty chuckle at some regional joke or
the other.

Frang, also known as Drunirithra, meaning Shieldfoil, was the son of a blacksmith, who also lived near Vithri. He was a
master of the shield, as his name implied, and oftentimes threw a sword or axe away in favor of bashing his shield to bloody
an opponent's nose.

Guro was slightly 'round around the tum' as was said in Vibfar's homeland, but that did not stop him from developing huge
knuckles and arms, allowing him to pack a mighty punch and swing a sword much harder than anyone. Few in the land could hope
match his strength.

Miluvax and Poloken were brothers who had earned great renown in slaying the last Giant to ever plague the land. This was
far back in the day when King Menequian was young and the Baton of the Yistrquian was seen amid battle like the first rays
of dawn could be seen at six in the morning on a cold winter's night. Of course, by now they were old, yet they still had
the rippling muscles, the good swish of sword that could cleave an arm. Vibfar did not dare think otherwise.

Nierlon was a mournful fellow, having lost both his parents and family relatives in an attack of Giants early in King
Menequian's reign. Vibfar didn't know much about him; the King's reasons for appointing him for the Quest remained a
mystery.

Once everybody was all rounded up, the king summoned them before a full court. No one was going to miss a chance to
watch the action of the century.

"Vibfar, your companions and fellows may be stronger in expertise, greater in skill, but only you will have the passion
enough to succeed when all others fail. It may be that we interfere with powers hitherto unnoticed, powers that many can
only dream of; powers that seek to entrap the Baton of Yistriquian and lead to our ruin. Take note of that, Vorik and
Frang." said the king, looking at each of them in turn.
"And you too, Guro. And you, Miluvax, and you, Poloken." His eyes softened as he turned. "And you too, Nierlon."

"It has been ordained that you shall set off for [TODO: map] first. As far as I can tell with the royal maps, those roads
are protected. But if a Troll may slip between the Pass of the Guardian Mountains, who knows what you might encounter?
I lay blessing to protect thee if need be. May Menergunter and Yistriyuan watch over you."

Once more, every lord and noble raised their swords in ceremonial acceptance. The enchanted crows by the king's side
let lay a song-filled shriek that seemed to tell of woe, though it could not be satisfactorily distinguished from their
regular noises.

Vibfar and the memebers of the Quest bowed deep before the court, and, turning their ankles in synchronicity, walked out
of the palace.
