Title of the story: The Black Snake of Time
Genre: Fantasy
Summary:
A noble knight's son grows up in a prosperous town. He's the subject of a prophecy that says he'll destroy a great evil.
In the year of his father's death some Druquian (guards) spot a Troll (Kalacala) in the twilight. Trolls have not been seen in that region since ages gone by.

The knight's son is summoned and is made the leader of a Quest to destroy the Troll Chieftain (Kalacalanolda) before he makes any trouble for the kingdom.

When they come to the Troll Chief's lair, he makes a dramatic appearance, and tells them that he is the first of many to come forth from the Dark Lord (?).

He then immolates himself and sets the whole place on fire. They narrowly escape.

The knight's son then decides to push on further, fighting other dark creatures as they make their way to the center of the darkness.

Then, by some ruinous dark force, they are revealed and all of the members of the Quest are killed, save the knight's son who was deemed too young to carry out the mission.

The knight's son escapes through the dark land, and reaches the king. The king decides to make haste and starts a military base close to the center of the darkness.

A year after, the knight's son is now a knight himself, and the Dark Lord has been constantly at war with the king. Through treachery, the king is assasinated, and the knight's son is made the king. He makes an alliance with a group of grey magicians, and they push on, through sorcery and magic. The king and the magicians, a desperate band, manage to penetrate the inner circle, and with a quick swoop, the king beheads the Dark Lord, suddenly blinded by the magician's magic. The king finishes up the rest of the Dark Army (Pharaxnir), aimless without their lord.

Many years after, the king's lands have now shrunken, due to a new threat in the west. He decides to recruit Trolls and other dark creatures, since many of his own have deserted and fled to the rebels. He is approached by a host of black magicians, offering their services to make him their rightful lord. He is now changed, and through dark magic manages to kill the rebel leader. However, as he lay resting (the magic to entrap them had exhausted him), a grey mist clouds his vision.

His last thought is a white face, closely resembling his own. He realizes it is his own. He had been defeated by himself.
